---
title: "Gaslight Apprenticeship: First Month"
date: "2018-04-11"
---

I am a month and a half into my apprenticeship with Gaslight and it has been an amazing experience. I have been learning so much, and everyone I have interacted with has been so friendly and encouraging. Every single day, I’m astonished that I get to do the work I do.

A year ago, I was an underachieving college student, about to graduate with a degree in a subject I never really intended on pursuing. I had taken a long, meandering path through college, trying and failing to find my \**true and ultimate passion*\*, going through two schools and about five different majors in the process. I had recently gotten married and decided I just needed to finish something, *anything*, and move on with my life.

With a family to support and a bachelor’s degree in my pocket, I set out on the job hunt. I also carried the extra weight of my insecurities and the anxiety of not having a clear path, which sometimes surged to the point of being full-on existential dread. Job searching is hard for me. Imposter syndrome is pretty much my default mode of being, and reading job descriptions is often just an exercise of making myself feel inadequate.

Through several different conversations with friends and loved ones, I decided that I would try to pursue a career as a web developer. It seemed like a great fit for me. I have always been very interested in math and science, so a career in a technical field would definitely interest me. And in such a broad and ever-changing field, there would always be something new to learn, which is crucial for me, as I can get bored very easily (see previous description of my college career). I began seeking out books and online tutorials, completing introductory courses in HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ruby, Java, Android, and more.

Now, armed with a few basic skills, I tried to find the next step, but every job I could find required a degree in the field, or at least 3 years of experience, if not both. That’s when I found Gaslight.

The apprentice program was exactly what I needed. I sent in a very basic project that I had made in one of the courses I had taken, and next thing I knew, I was in Gaslight’s office pair programming with one of their mentors. My nerves quickly gave way as I found myself enthusiastically taking on problems and talking things out when I got stuck. Once I was accepted into the program and placed at Kroger, I found that this collaborative way of working would become my daily norm. To my surprise and delight, I found myself surrounded by people who love what they do, are passionate life-long learners, and want me to succeed.

The program began with a three week long mini-bootcamp that Gaslight put together for the new apprentices, introducing us to the tools and workflow we would encounter at Kroger. Talk about drinking from the firehose. We spent two weeks learning as much as we could about git and version control, how networks work, Java and the Spring framework, React and Redux, Docker, Agile, and many more things. Learning about Agile software development was especially interesting for me. It was very different from learning different languages and software tools. Agile is a philosophy and set of values that is manifested in a set of workflows and practices that are very popular in the world of software development, and now project management more broadly. I was intrigued to learn about things like knowledge radiators, short feedback loops, and pair programming, that produce a culture of openness, transparency, and continual growth. It’s so perfect that the industry standard practices that produce the best software also create the perfect environment for teamwork and training.

The third week of our mini bootcamp involved working together in pairs on our own project, building a version of the HiLo game from the Price is Right, learning how to work in a pair programming environment, how to build a web application with React and Redux and a  backend server built with Java and the Spring Framework that served up data from Kroger’s product database. It was so rewarding to put everything we had learned into practice and to complete a real project, working together to solve problems as a team.

I can honestly say that pursuing this apprenticeship was one of the best decisions of my life. I get to go to work every day surrounded by a great team of people who are all passionate about what they do, doing it well, and getting better at it all the time. I’m so excited to continue learning, growing, and contributing to this great team.
